[DOCS][AWP] New page for Kubernetes dashboard (#2243)
elastic/security-docs: docs/dashboards/kubernetes-dashboard.asciidoc

**Prerequisites**: This feature requires Elastic Stack version 8.4 or higher. Your Elastic deployment must have the Endpoint and Cloud Security integration enabled, and you need an active Fleet Server.

**Support Matrix**: This feature is currently available on GKE and EKS using Linux hosts and Kubernetes versions that match the following specifications:
|=====================
| | **Kubernetes versions** | **Container runtime** | **Nose OSes**
|**EKS**| 1.18; 1.19; 1.20; 1.21| Docker | Amazon Linux 2, Bottlerocket OS
|**GKE**| Regular (default channel): 1.21 and 1.22; Stable: 1.20 and 1.21; Rapid: 1.22 and 1.23 | containerd | Container-optimized OS (COS), Ubuntu
|=====================
You first need to download the daemonset manifest .yaml, then modify it to include your Fleet URL and Enrollment Token before you deploy it to the clusters you want to monitor. After that, your data will appear in the Kubernetes dashboard.

[discrete]
== Download and modify the daemonset manifest

> The daemonset integrates Elastic Endpoint into your Kubernetes cluster. The Elastic Agent is enrolled to a running Fleet Server using the `FLEET_URL` parameter, and connected to a specific Elastic Agent policy using the `FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN`.

Reviewer: I like that we are saying `specific Elastic Agent policy`; however, it may not be clear that the policy we are targeting _**must have**_ the Endpoint integration added to it. Does it make sense to add some language to that effect for precision and to reduce confusion?

Reviewer 2: I also agree with Norrie on this, I also would like to note that for this release, we want to turn the beta flag for `session_data=true`, that can only be done within the Endpoint policy settings page

Reviewer: 💯

Author: :100:, incorporating these changes.

1. Download the daemonset manifest http://github.com/elastic/placeholder[here] for GKE and http://github.com/elastic/placeholder[here] for EKS.

> 2. In the manifest, fill in the `FLEET_URL` field with your Fleet URL. If you’re not sure how to find it, refer to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/fleet/current/fleet-settings.html[Fleet UI settings].

Reviewer 2: This is helpful to me, but I think the user might get slightly confused with the onboarding here. The way I usually onboard is that, yes I make sure that a fleet server is running. the link walks how to check for that. But once that is done I go through the Endpoint and Cloud Security onboarding workflow. e.g 
1. Home
2. Add integration (call to action button)
3. "Endpoint and Cloud Security" tile
4. Add Endpoint and Cloud Security (call to action button)
5. Go through step 1, step 2 for configure integration and agent policy and click "save and Continue
6. Add Elastic Agent to your host (call to action button)

Here is where i take note of the `--url=` and the token `--enrollment-token=` values which I will plugin to the `FLEET_URL` and `FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN` respectively within the YAML file 
8.

Author: Thanks for this Quan. I agree that these steps should more directly tell users how to find the Fleet URL and Enrollment token, and I've merged some changes in response to this feedback:
- Added explicit indications of where to find those two values (so users won't have to follow any links to find them).
- Added links in the prerequisites section at the top of the doc for how to set up a fleet server and how to deploy the Endpoint and Cloud Security integration, in case users haven't done that yet.

Please let me know if you'd like to see additional changes.

Once the daemonset is running, Elastic Endpoint will start sending Linux session data from Kubernetes to Kibana. You can then view that data using the Kubernetes dashboard.

[discrete]
== The Kubernetes dashboard
To find the dashboard, go to **Security > Dashboards > Kubernetes**.

image::kubernetes-dashboard.png[the Kubernetes dashboard, with numbered labels 1 through 3 for major sections]
Sections numbered above are described below:

  1. The charts at the top of the dashboard provide an overview of your monitored Kubernetes infrastructure. You can hide them by clicking Hide charts.
  2. The Tree navigation menu allows you to navigate through your deployments and select the scope of the Sessions table to the right. You can select any item in the menu to show its sessions. In Logical view, the menu is organized by Cluster, Namespace, Pod, and Container image. In Infrastructure view, it is organized by Cluster, Node, Pod, and Container image.
  3. The sessions table displays sessions collected from the selected element of your Kubernetes infrastructure. You can view it in fullscreen by selecting the button in its upper right corner, and sort it by any of its fields.

> 

Reviewer: Should we add some text guiding the user to the metadata tab in the session view's details panel? We have added a fair amount of new Kubernetes contextual data that will give the user even more context than those shown in the tree.

Reviewer 2: @benironside the ECS fields are listed here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JEmcKvWwHX1YEaqPDEm0So8l_1WdVxONuPTe-v0gxzw/edit#gid=1933739703 and displayed in the repurposed "Metadata" tab within the details panel

Author: Added a section with this info, thanks.

**Support Matrix**: This feature is currently available on GKE and EKS using Linux hosts and Kubernetes versions that match the following specifications:
|=====================
| | **Kubernetes versions** | **Container runtime** | **Nose OSes**
|**EKS**| 1.18; 1.19; 1.20; 1.21| Docker | Amazon Linux 2, Bottlerocket OS
|**GKE**| Regular (default channel): 1.21 and 1.22; Stable: 1.20 and 1.21; Rapid: 1.22 and 1.23 | containerd | Container-optimized OS (COS), Ubuntu
|=====================
You first need to download the daemonset manifest .yaml, then modify it to include your {fleet} URL and Enrollment Token before you deploy it to the clusters you want to monitor. After that, data will start to appear in the Kubernetes dashboard.

[discrete]
== Download and modify the daemonset manifest
The daemonset integrates Elastic Endpoint into your Kubernetes cluster. The Elastic Agent is enrolled to a running Fleet Server using the `FLEET_URL` parameter, and connected to a specific Elastic Agent policy using the `FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN`.

> 1. Download the daemonset manifest http://github.com/elastic/placeholder[here] for GKE or http://github.com/elastic/placeholder[here] for EKS.

Reviewer 2: Apologies for not mentioning this before. I see a slight hiccup here.
The YAML file will container placeholders for the user to fill in with regards to:
1) Agent container image
2) Endpoint container image
3) K8sMD container image 

They should be getting these images from the public repository:
docker.elastic.co/endpoint/k8smd:<version>
docker.elastic.co/endpoint/endpoint-security:<version>
docker.elastic.co/beats/elastic-agent:<version>

Author: Thanks!

2. Fill in the manifest's `FLEET_URL` field with your {fleet} server's `Host URL`. To find it, go to **Kibana > Management > {fleet} > Settings**. For more information, refer to {fleet-guide}/fleet-settings.html[Fleet UI settings].
3. Fill in the manifest's `FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN` field with a Fleet enrollment token. To find one, go to **Kibana > Management > {fleet} > Enrollment tokens**. For more information, refer to {fleet-guide}/fleet-enrollment-tokens.html[Fleet enrollment tokens].

IMPORTANT: The Elastic Agent policy you use must include the {endpoint-cloud-sec} integration, and must have `Include session data` set to `true`. To modify this setting, go to **Security > Manage > Policies**, select your policy, and find `Include session data` near the bottom of the `Policy settings` tab:

> image::session-data-config.png[the "Enable session data" setting on the Policy settings page]

Reviewer 3: If enabling session data is a requirement, then it should probably be in prerequisites or a numbered step somewhere earlier. You could still use an "Important" admonition to reinforce this requirement, but I wouldn't wait until this late point to mention it for the first time.

I'm not sure we need a screenshot for this, considering the maintenance cost. The instructions are clear enough, and we also opted not to use a screenshot for the main [Session View docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/master/session-view.html#enable-session-view). But if an image is necessary, in addition to adding a border, crop out the side nav and top status bar, which will surely change in the future.

[discrete]
== Apply the modified manifest to your cluster or clusters

> First, to ensure you install Endpoint on the desired k8s cluster(s), use `kubectl config use-context <name-of-context>` to set the default context. You can repeat the following process for multiple contexts.

Reviewer 3: Whenever I see "First" in docs, I wonder if the info might be better as a numbered procedure. Even if the order of the commands doesn't matter that much, formatting this as a procedure or even just bullets might help give the section some structure.

NOTE: To check which contexts exist, use `kubectl config get-contexts` to list them from your local kubectl config file. An asterisk, if present, indicates the current default context.

> To apply the manifest to a cluster, run for example: `kubectl apply -f eks-elastic-security.yaml` for EKS, or `kubectl apply -f gke-elastic-security.yaml` for GKE.

Reviewer 3: This would be good as bullets, since there are two options here:
```suggestion
To apply the manifest to a cluster, run for example: 
- EKS: `kubectl apply -f eks-elastic-security.yaml`
- GKE: `kubectl apply -f gke-elastic-security.yaml`
```

To check the daemonset’s status, run for example: `kubectl get pods -A`

Once the daemonset is running, Elastic Endpoint will start sending Linux session data from Kubernetes to Kibana. You can then view that data using the Kubernetes dashboard.

[discrete]
== The Kubernetes dashboard
To find the dashboard, go to **Security > Dashboards > Kubernetes**.

image::kubernetes-dashboard.png[the Kubernetes dashboard, with numbered labels 1 through 3 for major sections]
Sections numbered above are described below:

  1. The charts at the top of the dashboard provide an overview of your monitored Kubernetes infrastructure. You can hide them by clicking Hide charts.

>   2. The Tree navigation menu allows you to navigate through your deployments and select the scope of the Sessions table to the right. You can select any item in the menu to show its sessions. In Logical view, the menu is organized by Cluster, Namespace, Pod, and Container image. In Infrastructure view, it is organized by Cluster, Node, Pod, and Container image.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  2. The tree navigation menu allows you to navigate through your deployments and select the scope of the Sessions table to the right. You can select any item in the menu to show its sessions. In Logical view, the menu is organized by Cluster, Namespace, Pod, and Container image. In Infrastructure view, it is organized by Cluster, Node, Pod, and Container image.
```

>   3. The sessions table displays sessions collected from the selected element of your Kubernetes infrastructure. You can view it in fullscreen by selecting the button in its upper right corner, and sort it by any of its fields.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  3. The sessions table displays sessions collected from the selected element of your Kubernetes infrastructure. You can view it in fullscreen by selecting the button in the table's upper right corner, and sort it by any of its fields.
```

> You can filter the data using the KQL search bar and date picker at the top of the page, and take the following investigative actions on sessions in the sessions table using the buttons to their left:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can filter the data using the KQL search bar and date picker at the top of the page. From the Actions column in the sessions table, you take the following investigative actions on sessions:
```

Reviewer 4: This section might be good to add under #3 in the list above.

- View details
- Open in {security-guide}/timelines-ui.html[timeline]
- Run {kibana-ref}/osquery.html[Osquery]
- {security-guide}/visual-event-analyzer.html[Analyze] event

> - Open {security-guide}/session-view.html[Session View]

Reviewer 3: Creating links with just a word or two in each line makes the list look kind of jumbly. Linking each full line would give this a cleaner look, like a mini-TOC.

Also, why do the links to Security docs use external URL links, instead of internal anchor links (such as `<<timelines-ui,Open in Timeline>>`)?

> IMPORTANT: This dashboard uses data from the `logs-*` index pattern in the {security-guide}/advanced-settings.html#update-sec-indices[`securitySolution:defaultIndex` advanced setting] (where it is present by default). To collect data from multiple {es} clusters (as in a cross-cluster deployment), update `logs-*` to `*:logs-*` (this setting determines which data appears throughout Elastic Security).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: This dashboard uses data from the `logs-*` index pattern, which is included by default in the {security-guide}/advanced-settings.html#update-sec-indices[`securitySolution:defaultIndex` advanced setting]. To collect data from multiple {es} clusters (as in a cross-cluster deployment), update `logs-*` to `*:logs-*`.
```

Reviewer 4: Removed the last bit because that information feels more suited for the topic you linked to, or in another topic about data views.

> == Kubernetes-specific data in Session view

Reviewer 3: Is this section intended to be a separate page in the HTML output? If not, add the [discrete] tag above the heading. Also, in other docs we've been capitalizing both words in "Session View":
```suggestion
[discrete]
== Kubernetes-specific data in Session View
```

> Session view displays Kubernetes-specific metadata under the Metadata tab of the Detail panel:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Session view displays Kubernetes-specific metadata under the *Metadata* tab of the Detail panel:
```

> Session view displays Kubernetes-specific metadata under the Metadata tab of the Detail panel:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Session View displays Kubernetes-specific metadata under the Metadata tab of the Detail panel:
```

> image::metadata-tab.png[the Detail panel's metadata tab]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
image::metadata-tab.png[The Detail panel's metadata tab]
```

> The metadata tab is organized into four expandable sections:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The *Metadata* tab is organized into four expandable sections:
```

Reviewer 3: I'd also omit "four" because it's just one more word you have to remember to revise if they ever add/remove sections:
```suggestion
The *Metadata* tab is organized into these expandable sections:
```

- `Metadata` includes the fields `hostname`, `id`, `ip`, `mac`, and `name`, as well as information about the Host OS.
- `Cloud` includes the fields `instance.name`, `provider`, `region`, `account.id`, and `project.id`.
- `Container` includes the fields `id`, `name`, `image.name`, `image.tag`, and `image.hash.all`.

> - `Orchestrator` includes the fields `resource.ip`, `resource.name`, `resource.type`, `namespace`, `cluster.id`, `cluster.name`, and `parent.type`.

Reviewer 3: It feels a little unnecessary to try to present this information in complete sentences, because it's not really readable like that. I wonder if this could be a table, or maybe a definition-list style bullet list, like:

> The **Metadata** tab is organized into expandable sections containing these fields:
> - **Metadata** — `hostname`, `id`, `ip`, `mac`, `name`, host OS information
> - **Cloud** — `instance.name`, `provider`, `region`, `account.id`, `project.id`
> - etc etc

[[kubernetes-dashboard]]
= Kubernetes dashboard

This page explains how to deploy a https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/[DaemonSet] to collect session data from your Kubernetes clusters using the {endpoint-cloud-sec} integration, and how to view that data in {kib}'s Kubernetes dashboard. The collected data includes Kubernetes-specific information and Linux process data that can help you quickly understand where, how, and why your infrastructure is generating alerts.

[discrete]
== Setup
**Prerequisites**:

- You need an active {fleet-guide}/fleet-overview.html[{fleet} Server].
- This feature requires Elastic Stack version 8.4 or higher. Your Elastic deployment must have the {endpoint-cloud-sec} integration <<install-endpoint,enabled>>.

> - The Elastic Agent policy where you use the {endpoint-cloud-sec} integration must have `Include session data` set to `true`. To modify this setting, go to **Manage -> Policies**, select your policy, and find `Include session data` near the bottom of the `Policy settings` tab:

Author: No actually I had one and Joe suggested it was unnecessary. Extra colon here. Good catch

**Support matrix**: This feature is currently available on GKE and EKS using Linux hosts and Kubernetes versions that match the following specifications.
|=====================
| | **Kubernetes versions** | **Container runtime** | **Node OSes**
|**EKS**| 1.18; 1.19; 1.20; 1.21| Docker | Amazon Linux 2, Bottlerocket OS
|**GKE**| Regular (default channel): 1.21 and 1.22; Stable: 1.20 and 1.21; Rapid: 1.22 and 1.23 | containerd | Container-optimized OS (COS), Ubuntu
|=====================

[discrete]
=== Download and modify the DaemonSet manifest

> The DaemonSet integrates Elastic Endpoint into your Kubernetes cluster. The Elastic Agent is enrolled to a running Fleet Server using the `FLEET_URL` parameter, and connected to a specific Elastic Agent policy using the `FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The DaemonSet integrates {elastic-endpoint} into your Kubernetes cluster. The {agent} is enrolled to a running {fleet-server} using the `FLEET_URL` parameter, and connected to a specific {agent} policy using the `FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN`.
```

You first need to download the DaemonSet manifest `.yaml`, then modify it to include your {fleet} URL and Enrollment Token before you deploy it to the clusters you want to monitor.

1. Download the DaemonSet manifest http://github.com/elastic/placeholder[here] for GKE or http://github.com/elastic/placeholder[here] for EKS.
2. Fill in the manifest's `FLEET_URL` field with your {fleet} server's `Host URL`. To find it, go to **{kib} -> Management -> {fleet} -> Settings**. For more information, refer to {fleet-guide}/fleet-settings.html[Fleet UI settings].
3. Fill in the manifest's `FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN` field with a Fleet enrollment token. To find one, go to **{kib} -> Management -> {fleet} -> Enrollment tokens**. For more information, refer to {fleet-guide}/fleet-enrollment-tokens.html[Fleet enrollment tokens].

[discrete]
=== Apply the modified manifest to your cluster or clusters

> To ensure you install Endpoint on the desired k8s cluster(s), use `kubectl config use-context <name-of-context>` to set the default context. You can repeat the following process for multiple contexts.

Reviewer 5: Idk if we should use the K8 shortcut in docs yet. 

```suggestion
To ensure you install {elastic-endpoint} on the desired Kubernetes cluster(s), use `kubectl config use-context <name-of-context>` to set the default context. You can repeat the following process for multiple contexts.
```

NOTE: To check which contexts exist, use `kubectl config get-contexts` to list them from your local kubectl config file. An asterisk, if present, indicates the current default context.

> To apply the manifest to a cluster, run for example:

Reviewer 5: I'd make it clear it's an example in the beginning. Alt is `"to apply the manifest to a cluster, you can run the following command..." `
```suggestion
**Example:** Apply the manifest to a cluster:
```

- EKS: `kubectl apply -f eks-elastic-security.yaml`

> - GKE: `kubectl apply -f gke-elastic-security.yaml`

Reviewer 5: These didn't come through as bullets like I think, and they're a little hard to read. I think you need a line break. You can also try a `[source, console]` block to see if that renders better. 

Ex: 
```
[source,console]
----------------------------------
`kubectl apply -f eks-elastic-security.yaml`
----------------------------------
```

To check the DaemonSet’s status, run for example: `kubectl get pods -A`

Once the DaemonSet is running, Elastic Endpoint will start sending Linux session data from Kubernetes to {kib}. You can then view that data from the Kubernetes dashboard.

[discrete]
== The Kubernetes dashboard
To find the dashboard, go to **Dashboards -> Kubernetes**.

> image::kubernetes-dashboard.png[The Kubernetes dashboard, with numbered labels 1 through 3 for major sections]

Reviewer 5: You need to wrap a 1-2px border around the image, otherwise it appears to have no definition w/ the white background of the page.

The numbered sections are described below:

  1. The charts at the top of the dashboard provide an overview of your monitored Kubernetes infrastructure. You can hide them by clicking *Hide charts*.

>   2. The tree navigation menu allows you to navigate through your deployments and select the scope of the Sessions table to the right. You can select any item in the menu to show its sessions. In Logical view, the menu is organized by Cluster, Namespace, Pod, and Container image. In Infrastructure view, it is organized by Cluster, Node, Pod, and Container image.

Reviewer 5: You have "sessions table" lowercase everywhere but in this sentence from what I see.

>   3. The sessions table displays sessions collected from the selected element of your Kubernetes infrastructure. You can view it in fullscreen by selecting the button in the table's upper right corner, and sort it by any of its fields.

Reviewer 5: Would be nice to have an inline image here of the fullscreen icon. Also confused if sorting a table by its fields is required after you click the fullscreen icon? If not, that needs to be a separate sentence, e.g., "you can sort the table by any field name" or something to that effect.

```suggestion
  3. The sessions table displays sessions collected from the selected element of your Kubernetes infrastructure. To view it in fullscreen, select the icon located in the upper right, and sort it by any of its fields.
```
